                                Max-elaborations

                                      Name

   max-elaborations - Limit the maximum number of elaboration cycles in a
   given phase. Print a warning message if the limit is reached during a run.

                                    Synopsis

 max-elaborations [n]

                                    Options

   +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
   |n|Maximum allowed elaboration cycles, must be a positive integer.|
   +-----------------------------------------------------------------+

                                  Description

   This command sets and prints the maximum number of elaboration cycles
   allowed. If n is given, it must be a positive integer and is used to reset
   the number of allowed elaboration cycles. The default value is 100.
   max-elaborations with no arguments prints the current value.

   max-elaborations controls the maximum number of elaborations allowed in a
   single decision cycle. The elaboration phase will end after
   max-elaboration cycles have completed, even if there are more productions
   eligible to fire or retract; and Soar will proceed to the next phase after
   a warning message is printed to notify the user. This limits the total
   number of cycles of parallel production firing but does not limit the
   total number of productions that can fire during elaboration.

   This limit is included in Soar to prevent getting stuck in infinite loops
   (such as a production that repeatedly fires in one elaboration cycle and
   retracts in the next); if you see the warning message, it may be a signal
   that you have a bug your code. However some Soar programs are designed to
   require a large number of elaboration cycles, so rather than a bug, you
   may need to increase the value of max-elaborations.

   In Soar8, max-elaborations is checked during both the Propose Phase and
   the Apply Phase. If Soar8 runs more than the max-elaborations limit in
   either of these phases, Soar8 proceeds to the next phase (either Decision
   or Output) even if quiescence has not been reached.

                                    Examples

   The command issued with no arguments, returns the max elaborations
   allowed:

 max-elaborations

   to set the maximum number of elaborations in one phase to 50:

 max-elaborations 50
